1) Go to GCP console and look for 'marketplace' in the search bar.

2) Type 'wordpress bitnami' in the marketplace search bar.
  -> Bitnami package for WordPress is pre-configured and ready-to-use immediately on any platform 
  (e.g. GCP, AWS, Azure, etc.)

3) Select 'WordPress Certified by Bitnami and Automatic' from the list.

4) What we seek from WordPress+Bitnami combi here is 'Bncert Tool' (SSL) that this package provides.

5) Launch the deployment and configure the vm.

6) While configuring, make sure 'allow HTTP/HTTPS traffic' checked.

7) Click Deploy.

8) You are automatically taken to the Deployment Manager page when finished.

9) Click wordpress-certified folder and look at your site address is working.

10) Go to WordPress admin and change your temporary password.

11) Go to Users and change your user setting including Nickname, Display Name, Email, and *password*.

12) Click update user profile.

13) Next step is assigning an external IP address.

14) Log in to SSH tool and check if the Bncert Tool is installed.
   -> cd / -> cd /opt/bitnami -> ls -al (check here if bncert-tool is installed)

15) Close the SSH window and go to your compute engine vm instance.

16) Scroll down and look for Network Interfaces.

17) Click that and on the left side select 'IP Address'

18) As your IP address is ephemeral, we need to make it 'static' so that it doesn't change when you reboots your machine.

19) Select 'Reserve external static address' and pick Premium for Network Service Tier and attach it to your vm instance.

20) Go back to your Deployment Manager and see if your IP address has changed to your new static address.

21) Refresh your old IP on browser, too. It will work.

22) To give this IP address a custom dommain name (yejin-cloud-study.site), you need to buy your domain from a vendor.

23) I used NameCheap site to register one and after buying your domain go to your Domain List and click Manage.

24) Go to Advanced DNS and add custom records like following:

    Type: A record, Host: @, Value: your static IP address, TTL: Automatic
    Type: A record, Host: www, Value: your static IP address, TTL: Automatic

25) Save the changes and it could take 15-20 minutes to take effect.

26) To check if your domain address works, type the address on the browser.

27) The last step is to add SSL to your site.

28) Go to your Deployment Manager and click SSH.

29) We are going to run the bncert-tool here.

30) Type the following commands:
    sudo /opt/bitnami/bncert-tool
    - when prompted, enter your domain (e.g. www.yejin-cloud-study.site)
    - when prompted, say yes to enable HTTP to HTTPS redirection.
    - Enter your valid email address.
    - Enter y for Let's Encrypt subscriber agreement.
    - Once done, enter exit to get out of the shell.

31) Enter your domain again and check if the security warning sign disappeared.